Copy within (#1469)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/arrays/terms/copyWithin/copyWithin.md

---
Title: '.copyWithin()'

> Description: 'Copies part of an array to another location in the same array and returns it without modifying its length.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns a mutated array with part of it copied to another location in the same array, and its length unchanged.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The `.copyWithin()` copies part of an array to another location in the same array and returns it without modifying its length.

## Syntax

> The `.copyWithin()` method is a mutating method. It does not alter the length of the array, but it will change the content of the array and create new properties or delete existing properties, if necessary.

Reviewer 2: This sentence seems to belong in the introduction rather than in the syntax section. I'd move all of line 19 to after line 15.

> ```js

Reviewer 2: We generally have syntax examples in a ```pseudo block.

Author: Ok, sure, I will change that. However, files like foreach and filter have the syntax written in js bock. In the future, do you think I should change them to a pseudo block in another branch?

Reviewer 2: @FireBird1998, it's a recent style decision. It's not urgent, but you could go ahead and do so.

array1.copyWithin(target);
array1.copyWithin(target, start);
array1.copyWithin(target, start, end);
```

> ### Parameters

Reviewer 2: There needs to be a line break after the code block.

  - If `target < -array.length`, `0` is used.
  - If `target >= array.length`, nothing is copied. 
  - If `target` is positioned after `start` after normalization, copying only happens until the end of `array.length`(in other words, `copyWithin()` never extends the array).

- `start` (optional): Zero-based index at which to start copying the elements from.
  - Negative index counts back from the end of the array — if `start < 0`, `start + array.length` is used.
  - If `start < -array.length` or `start` is omitted, `0` is used. 
  - If `start >= array.length`, nothing is copied. 

- `end` (optional): Zero-based index at which to end copying elements from. `copyWithin()` copies up to the end of the array if `end` is not included.
  -  Negative index counts back from the end of the array — if `end < 0`, `end + array.length` is used.
  - If `end < -array.length`, `0` is used.
  - If `end >= array.length` or `end` is omitted, `array.length` is used, causing all elements until the end to be copied.
  - If `end` is positioned before or at `start` after normalization, nothing is copied.

> ## Return value

Reviewer 2: This should be part of the syntax section, so it should be a ### header.

The modified array.

> ## Example 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sparse Arrays

If the `.copyWithin()` method is applied to a sparse array that contains empty slots, it will populate them with an `undefined` value:

## Example
```

In between "empty value:" and "## Example", let's include the following example:

```
console.log([1, , 3].copyWithin(2, 1, 2)); 
// Output: [1, undefined, undefined]
```

We can use a \```js for this one. 😄

Using `copyWithin()`

```js

> console.log([1, 2, 3, 4, 5].copyWithin(-2));
> //output: [1, 2, 3, 1, 2]
> 
> console.log([1, 2, 3, 4, 5].copyWithin(0, 3));
> //output:output: [4, 5, 3, 4, 5]
> 
> console.log([1, 2, 3, 4, 5].copyWithin(0, 3, 4));
> //output: [4, 2, 3, 4, 5]
> 
> console.log([1, 2, 3, 4, 5].copyWithin(-2, -3, -1));
> //output: [1, 2, 3, 3, 4]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// copy elements starting from the second-to-last index
console.log([1, 2, 3, 4, 5].copyWithin(-2));

// copy to index 0 all elements index 3 to the end
console.log([1, 2, 3, 4, 5].copyWithin(0, 3));

// copy to index 0 the element at index 2
console.log([1, 2, 3, 4, 5].copyWithin(0, 2, 3));

// copy to second-to-last index elements starting from index 2 until end of array
console.log([1, 2, 3, 4, 5].copyWithin(-2, -3, -1));
```

Let's extract this output and put into a separate \```shell snippet (suggested below). I also suggested slightly different examples with explanatory comments above each one.

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will produce the following output:

```

And then let's add a \```shell snippet that looks like this:

```
[ 1, 2, 3, 1, 2 ]
[ 4, 5, 3, 4, 5 ]
[ 3, 2, 3, 4, 5 ]
[ 1, 2, 3, 3, 4 ]
```

> ## Example 2
> 
> Using `copyWithin()` on sparse arrays
> 
> ```js
> console.log([1, , 3].copyWithin(2, 1, 2)); 
> //output: [1, empty, empty]
> 
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

For Docs entries, let's try to stick with one "Example" section and one "Codebyte Example" section (if applicable).

## Codebyte Example

> Useing the `copyWithin()` method to copy the element at index 1 (the second element, or 'b') to the index 3 (the fourth element).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the `copyWithin()` method to copy the element at index 1 (the second element, or 'b') to the index 3 (the fourth element).
```

> Using the `copyWithin()` method to copy the element at index 1 (the second element, or 'b') to the index 3 (the fourth element).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the `.copyWithin()` method to copy the second element at index 1 ('b') to the fourth element at index 3:
```

> ```codebyte/js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```codebyte/javascript
```
